Turnstile (#5770)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/turnstile/get-started/server-side-validation.md

---
pcx_content_type: get-started
title: Server-side Validation
weight: 4
layout: single
---

# Server-side Validation

> Customers can validate the Turnstile widget response from your website's backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers must validate the Turnstile widget response from their website's backend.
```
It's a *must*

"your/their": not sure

> Tokens issued to Turnstile using the success callbacks, via explicit or implicit rendering, can be validated using the siteverify endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tokens issued to Turnstile using the success callbacks, via explicit or implicit rendering, must be validated using the siteverify endpoint.
```

The siteverify endpoint needs to be passed a secret key that is associated with the sitekey. The secret key will be provisioned alongside the sitekey.

> Furthermore, the token needs to be passed to the siteverify endpoint

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, the token needs to be passed to the siteverify endpoint.
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}

A token may only be validated once. If the same token is validated twice, the second and each subsequent request will yield an error that the token has been spent.

{{</Aside>}}

Example using cURL:

<div>

```bash

> curl -L -X POST 'https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/siteverify' --data "secret=verysecret&response=<token>"

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
curl -L -X POST 'https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/siteverify' --data 'secret=verysecret&response=<token>'
```

```
</div>

Example using fetch from Workers:

<div>

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

async function handleRequest() {
//... receive token
let formData = new FormData();
formData.append('secret', 'verysecret');
formData.append('response', 'receivedToken');
 

> await fetch("https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstoile/v0/siteverify",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
await fetch("https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/siteverify",
```

> await fetch("https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstoile/v0/siteverify",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
await fetch('https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/siteverify',
```

    {
        body: formData,

>         method: "post"

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
        method: 'post'
```

    });
...
}

```
</div>

> The siteverify endpoint behaves similar to reCaptcha’s siteverify endpoint. The response type of the siteverify is application/json.

Reviewer: Can we add a table listing the parameters we accept, and a description? (`secret`, `response`, `remoteip`)

It always contains a "success" property indicating whether the operation was successful or not. 

In case of a successful validation, the response should look like this:

<div>

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
  "success": true,
  "challenge_ts": "2022-02-28T15:14:30.096Z",

>   "hostname": "127.0.0.1",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "hostname": "example.com",
```

  "error-codes": [],

>   "action": "non-interactive-box-action",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "action": "login",
```

>   "cdata": "non-interactive-box-cData"

Reviewer 2: Not sure what example we should use, but it should be something that makes a bit more sense than this (similar to @punkeel's suggestion for the `action` field).

}  

```
</div>

* `challenge_ts` is the ISO timestamp for the time the challenge was solved.
* `hostname` is the hostname for which the challenge was served.
* `action` is the customer widget identifier that got passed to the widget on the client side. This is used to differentiate widgets using the same sitekey in analytics. It is integrity protected by modifications from an attacker.
* `cdata` is customer data that got passed to the widget on the client side. This can be used by the customer to convey state. It is integrity protected by modifications from an attacker.

> * `error-codes` is a list of errors that occured, 

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
* `error-codes` is a list of errors that occured.
```

In case of a validation failure, the response should look like this:

<div>

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
  "success": false,
  "hostname": "",
  "error-codes": [
    "invalid-input-response"
  ]
}

```
</div>

## Error codes

| error-code | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | ` missing-input-secret` | the secret parameter was not passed. |

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
| `missing-input-secret` | the secret parameter was not passed. |
```

> | ` missing-input-secret` | the secret parameter was not passed. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `missing-input-secret` | The secret parameter was not passed. |
```

Reviewer 2: I guess same for the other fields to match what's done in the other table?
